why amazon
==========

I often don't get the chance to make something run as efficiently as possible.
Folks will sacrifice efficiency for convenience every single time here.

I'm a bit tired of that.  I've gotten a bit of a name for myself for 'over
engineering' things, that efficiency doesn't matter until it does.  As a
result, most things get re-rewritten as services scale.  I'm looking for a
place where folks keep performance in mind.  And try to do it right the first
time.


why this position
=================

This position in particular sounds interesting to me.  I instruct a few courses
on HPC use and application profiling.  I'm also constantly asked for to coax
metrics and other numbers out of archaic systems, often having to write stacks
of in-house middle wear to support these sorts of things.   This is partly
because some of it is off the shelf with terrible vendor support, and mostly
because research teams don't have the time or skill to integrate with these
metrics systems.  To be fair, the engineering teams are pretty good about it.


It'd be really nice to be able to have an effect on both the metrics gathering
tools and the services from which the metrics originate from.


Why do I think I'd be a good fit.
================================

I've lots of experience debugging pathologically performing systems through
various type of instrumentation.  I know how monitoring works, and that
observability is more than a buzz word.

I've been in the research space for several years now. My previous two
employers.  You're often dealing with people above you that have came up via
the research track, instead of a technical or business track.  These people have devoted
their lives to asking questions and making sense of data.  Be it nuclear energy
or health related, they may not know anything about your tech stack, but they
ask really good questions.  You can't say 'I don't know' and you can't BS them,
so you quickly realize you need to be able to ask your systems nuanced
questions in an ad-hoc manner.  This is what observability is all about.

I'm also in the habit of keeping track of the upstream projects that I use,
along with any competitors, keeping an eye on features in development and
watching bug trackers (pandas stresses me out).  I also try to keep a handle on
what other organizations in my space are doing.
